README.md, before:

# rfstools
Remote file system tools for data manipulation between remote and local host (cp, mv, ls, rm,..) written in Python3. 
This package provides you executables `pcp`, `pls`, `pmv`,..., which enables you to do painless data operations on remote/between remote and local host using SFTP/FTP/FTPS/SMB12(SMB version 1 or 2)/SMB23(SMB version 2 or 3)/FS(local file system) protocols.

Furthermore you can enable data reencoding during data transfer (CRLF/LF and character reencoding). 

In future, it should be possible to do atomical transaction transfers between many hosts so you are sure, that after failure (eg. connection loss), no change is made on any host.

## Examples
In further subchapters, there are examples of solving some of basic tasks using this tool. Only the first chapter contains the configuration file setup...in the others it can be done analogically.

### Copy a file from a SMB2 server to local host
First of all, we need to set up configuration file.

    cat > /some-path/rfstools.conf << EOF
    connection-type=SMB12
    
    # For SMB we always need to say, which remote folder do we use.
    service-name=special-folder

    host=speciserver-smb.cz
    username=speciman

    password=mysecret

    EOF

After that, we set up an enviroment variable `RFSTOOLS_CONFIG`, so the tool knows, which configuration file should it use.

    export RFSTOOLS_CONFIG=/some-path/rfstools.conf

Finally, we run

    pcp r:/some-path2/file ./

### Downloading all files from remote folder /etc ending with .conf

    pcp r:/etc/*.conf ./

### Listing all subfolders in some folder

    pls r:/some-path/*/

### Recursive copying of remote folder to local

    pcp -r r:/folder ./

### Moving all remote temporary files in /tmp to local host tmp

    pmv r:/tmp/* /tmp

### Cross copying (using local and remote files) to remote host

    pcp r:/file1 /file2 r:/target-folder

### Deletetion of all remote files (with directories) ending with .tmp

    prm -r r:/**/*.tmp

### Copiing greped files to local host

    pls -p r:/some-path | grep "^.*/SOME_REGEX$" | xargs pcp -t /target-folder 

### Recoding from CRLF to LF while copying from remote host to local host

    export RFSTOOLS_REMOTE_CRLF=TRUE
    pcp -X r:/crlf-file ./lf-file

### Recoding from local UTF8 file to UTF16 remote encoding while copying
    
    export RFSTOOLS_REMOTE_ENCODING=UTF16
    pcp -X ./utf8-file r:/utf16-file

## Installation
We recommend, that you upgrade your pip version before doing any further step.

    pip3 install --user -U pip

    # If there is no pip3
    pip install --user -U pip

Be sure, that your `pip` installation folder/bin is correctly in your `PATH` enviroment variable. 
For example, if you are on Debian and you are not installing under root, you have `~/.local/bin` in $PATH.
If it is not present, you will not able to call `rfstools` from command line.

Packages `rfslib` and `rfstools` are private and therefore it is needed, that you add extra indexes to `pip` configuration.
For example this can be done by adding file `.pip/pip.conf` with

    [global]
    extra-index-url = https://<token_name>:<token>@git.profinit.eu/api/v4/projects/551/packages/pypi/simple 
      https://<token_name>:<token>@git.profinit.eu/api/v4/projects/552/packages/pypi/simple

where (`token_name`, `token`) pair might be ether personal access token to Profinit Gitlab or deploy token to Profinit Gitlab.
If you want to generate personal access token, you can do it here: https://git.profinit.eu/-/profile/personal_access_tokens
If you want to generate deploy token, you can do it here: https://git.profinit.eu/groups/rfs/-/settings/repository

Be aware, that if private pypi repository on Gitlab doesn't work correctly, the useless dummy public version of this package (squatting-attack prevension) might be downloaded.

Finally, install the package using `pip`

    pip install rfstools


## Configuration
Args that start with '--' (eg. -U) can also be set in a config file
(/etc/rfstools.conf or ~/.rfstools.conf or specified via -c). Config file
syntax allows: key=value, flag=true, stuff=[a,b,c] (for details, see syntax at
https://goo.gl/R74nmi). If an arg is specified in more than one place, then
commandline values override environment variables which override config file
values which override defaults.

## Documentation
Documentation can be found in autogenerated repository [rfstools-docs](https://git.profinit.eu/rfs/rfstools-docs).

Commit message:

added upgrade manual to README.md - https://git.profinit.eu/rfs/rfstools/-/issues/14

README.md, after:

# rfstools
Remote file system tools for data manipulation between remote and local host (cp, mv, ls, rm,..) written in Python3. 
This package provides you executables `pcp`, `pls`, `pmv`,..., which enables you to do painless data operations on remote/between remote and local host using SFTP/FTP/FTPS/SMB12(SMB version 1 or 2)/SMB23(SMB version 2 or 3)/FS(local file system) protocols.

Furthermore you can enable data reencoding during data transfer (CRLF/LF and character reencoding). 

In future, it should be possible to do atomical transaction transfers between many hosts so you are sure, that after failure (eg. connection loss), no change is made on any host.

## Examples
In further subchapters, there are examples of solving some of basic tasks using this tool. Only the first chapter contains the configuration file setup...in the others it can be done analogically.

### Copy a file from a SMB2 server to local host
First of all, we need to set up configuration file.

    cat > /some-path/rfstools.conf << EOF
    connection-type=SMB12
    
    # For SMB we always need to say, which remote folder do we use.
    service-name=special-folder

    host=speciserver-smb.cz
    username=speciman

    password=mysecret

    EOF

After that, we set up an enviroment variable `RFSTOOLS_CONFIG`, so the tool knows, which configuration file should it use.

    export RFSTOOLS_CONFIG=/some-path/rfstools.conf

Finally, we run

    pcp r:/some-path2/file ./

### Downloading all files from remote folder /etc ending with .conf

    pcp r:/etc/*.conf ./

### Listing all subfolders in some folder

    pls r:/some-path/*/

### Recursive copying of remote folder to local

    pcp -r r:/folder ./

### Moving all remote temporary files in /tmp to local host tmp

    pmv r:/tmp/* /tmp

### Cross copying (using local and remote files) to remote host

    pcp r:/file1 /file2 r:/target-folder

### Deletetion of all remote files (with directories) ending with .tmp

    prm -r r:/**/*.tmp

### Copiing greped files to local host

    pls -p r:/some-path | grep "^.*/SOME_REGEX$" | xargs pcp -t /target-folder 

### Recoding from CRLF to LF while copying from remote host to local host

    export RFSTOOLS_REMOTE_CRLF=TRUE
    pcp -X r:/crlf-file ./lf-file

### Recoding from local UTF8 file to UTF16 remote encoding while copying
    
    export RFSTOOLS_REMOTE_ENCODING=UTF16
    pcp -X ./utf8-file r:/utf16-file

## Installation
We recommend, that you upgrade your pip version before doing any further step.

    pip3 install --user -U pip

    # If there is no pip3
    pip install --user -U pip

Be sure, that your `pip` installation folder/bin is correctly in your `PATH` enviroment variable. 
For example, if you are on Debian and you are not installing under root, you have `~/.local/bin` in $PATH.
If it is not present, you will not able to call `rfstools` from command line.

Packages `rfslib` and `rfstools` are private and therefore it is needed, that you add extra indexes to `pip` configuration.
For example this can be done by adding file `.pip/pip.conf` with

    [global]
    extra-index-url = https://<token_name>:<token>@git.profinit.eu/api/v4/projects/551/packages/pypi/simple 
      https://<token_name>:<token>@git.profinit.eu/api/v4/projects/552/packages/pypi/simple

where (`token_name`, `token`) pair might be ether personal access token to Profinit Gitlab or deploy token to Profinit Gitlab.
If you want to generate personal access token, you can do it here: https://git.profinit.eu/-/profile/personal_access_tokens
If you want to generate deploy token, you can do it here: https://git.profinit.eu/groups/rfs/-/settings/repository

Be aware, that if private pypi repository on Gitlab doesn't work correctly, the useless dummy public version of this package (squatting-attack prevension) might be downloaded.

Finally, install the package using `pip`

    pip install rfstools

## Upgrade
If you installed this utility using the manual above, you should be able to easily upgrade rfstools and rfslib to the current version using

    pip install -U rfstools rfslib


## Configuration
Args that start with '--' (eg. -U) can also be set in a config file
(/etc/rfstools.conf or ~/.rfstools.conf or specified via -c). Config file
syntax allows: key=value, flag=true, stuff=[a,b,c] (for details, see syntax at
https://goo.gl/R74nmi). If an arg is specified in more than one place, then
commandline values override environment variables which override config file
values which override defaults.

## Documentation
Documentation can be found in autogenerated repository [rfstools-docs](https://git.profinit.eu/rfs/rfstools-docs).
